1.7 release notes (#4494)
dapr/dapr: docs/release_notes/v1.7.0.md

# Dapr 1.7.0

We're happy to announce the release of Dapr 1.7.0!

We would like to extend our thanks to all the new and existing contributors who helped make this release happen.

## Highlights

### Configure retries, timeouts, and circuit breakers across Dapr APIs

> Distributed applications are commonly comprised of many microservices, with dozens, even hundreds, of instances for any given application. With so many microservices, the likelihood of a system failure increases. For example, an instance can fail or be unresponsive due to hardware, an overwhelming number of requests, application restarts/scale outs, or several other reasons. These events can cause a network call between services to fail. Designing and implementing your application with fault tolerance, the ability to detect, mitigate, and respond to failures, allows your application to recover to a functioning state and become self healing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distributed applications are commonly comprised of many services, with dozens - even hundreds - of instances for any given application. These applications do not live in isolation, but are many times dependent on databases, caches, pub/subs, secret stores and other infrastructure services. With more dependencies, the likelihood of a system failure increases. For example, an instance can fail or be unresponsive due to hardware failure, database slowness, an overwhelming number of requests, application restarts/scale outs, or several other reasons. Designing and implementing your application with fault tolerance (the ability to detect, mitigate, and respond to failures) allows your application to recover to a functioning state and become self healing, and also helps prevent cascading failures all the way to your infrastructure services.
```

- **FIXED** MySQL state store: transaction API to respect order of operations. [1521](https://github.com/dapr/components-contrib/issues/1521)
- **FIXED** PostgreSQL state store: transaction API to respect order of operations. [1522](https://github.com/dapr/components-contrib/issues/1522)
- **FIXED** rabbitmq pub/sub: Fixes a reconnect issue [1471](https://github.com/dapr/components-contrib/pull/1471)
- **FIXED** Redis state store: Fixes an issue preventing querying of numeric values [1594](https://github.com/dapr/components-contrib/issues/1594)
- **FIXED** Setting a value using ETag for the Postgres state store [1497](https://github.com/dapr/components-contrib/issues/1497)
- **FIXED** SQL Server state store: Ensures transaction API executes all transactions sequentially. [1537](https://github.com/dapr/components-contrib/issues/1537)
- **FIXED** SQL Server state store: transaction API to respect order of operations. [1505](https://github.com/dapr/components-contrib/issues/1505)

### Dashboard
- **ADDED** Several Dashboard improvements [190](https://github.com/dapr/dashboard/pull/190)

> ### .NET SDK

Reviewer 2: Needs .NET 6.

**ADDED** Build/test with .NET 6 to CI matrix [794](https://github.com/dapr/dotnet-sdk/issues/794)

- **FIXED** Configuration API, listen to all keys [4178](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4178)
- **ADDED** HealthzPort option to injector helm chart - defaults to 8080 [4179](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4179)
- **FIXED** Dapr retries forever when app is erroring on subscriptions [4185](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4185)
- **FIXED** gRPC proxy connection closes after mTLS TTL passed [4197](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4197)
- **ADDED** Dapr images on GitHub Registry in addition to Docker Hub [4199](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4199)
- **FIXED** Multiple access control policies for a single app not working [4202](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4202)
- **ADDED** New options available for the default secret-reader deployed by the dapr_rbac subchart. [4203](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4203)
- **FIXED** Sidecar loads components instead of skipping if exists when operator stream reconnects [4212](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4212)
- **FIXED** Update of components in Kubernetes mode was accidentally available and not working properly, now blocked. [4218](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4218)

> - **ADDED** Introduce state store component backed by Oracle Database or OCI Autonomous Database [4221](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4221

Reviewer 3: A brace missing

- **ADDED** Resiliency policies across all building blocks [3586](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3586)
- **CHANGED** Actor Reentrancy to stable feature [3811](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3811)
- **CHANGED** gRPC Proxying to stable feature [3814](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3814)
- **FIXED** Service invocation to return original status code on service invocation. Add the possibility to configure retries base on error type [3826](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3826)
- **FIXED** Serialization of 64bit values. [3837](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3837)
- **ADDED** Unsubscribe method for the configuration API. [3906](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3906)
- **FIXED** Bug in runtime matching wildcard routes for pubsub. [3920](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3920)
- **ADDED** Actor options configuration per actor type [3934](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3934)
- **ADDED** Logging for mTLS cert expiration [3940](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3940)
- **ADDED** Logging for sidecar pod name in Dapr Operator [3947](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/3947)

> - **FIXED** Method invocation / Dapr automatically decodes %2f in URL [4008](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4008)

Reviewer 4: Should this be a breaking change even thought it is a bug fix ? @artursouza @yaron2

- **FIXED** TLS connectivity to gRPC proxy functionality when --app-ssl is enabled [4048](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4048)

> - **ADDED** More metrics [4068](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4068)

Reviewer 4: more details?

Reviewer 5: In one line? There are many more metrics, users can look at the issue for more details.

- **ADDED** logging for Dapr API calls over gRPC and HTTP [4119](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4119)
- **ADDED** Nightly builds for Dapr [4124](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4124)
- **FIXED** helm charts: increase failure threshold for liveness and readiness probes [4132](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4132)

> - **FIXED** dapr reconnect logic with rabbitmq results in "channel not initialized" [4143](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4143)

Reviewer 4: should this be in components contrib section ?

Author: If there was a PR against contrib then we already have an item in the contrib section. So maybe remove here

Reviewer 5: Yes, we have there already. Removing the line.

- **ADDED** sidecar-injector health check port setting in helm chart [4174](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4174)
- **FIXED** Configuration API, listen to all keys [4178](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4178)
- **ADDED** HealthzPort option to injector helm chart - defaults to 8080 [4179](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4179)
- **FIXED** Dapr retries forever when app is erroring on subscriptions [4185](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4185)
- **FIXED** gRPC proxy connection closes after mTLS TTL passed [4197](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4197)

> - **ADDED** Dapr images on GitHub Registry in addition to Docker Hub [4199](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4199)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **ADDED** Publish Dapr images to GitHub container registry in addition to Docker Hub [4199](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4199)
```

Reviewer 5: ADDED and Publish is confusing in the same sentence.

Reviewer 5: Changed the rest.

- **ADDED** New options available for the default secret-reader deployed by the dapr_rbac subchart. [4203](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4203)
- **FIXED** Sidecar loads components instead of skipping if exists when operator stream reconnects [4212](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4212)
- **FIXED** Update of components in Kubernetes mode was accidentally available and not working properly, now blocked. [4218](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4218)
- **ADDED** Introduce state store component backed by Oracle Database or OCI Autonomous Database [4221](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4221
- **FIXED** Condition in ReminderRename that would leave Reminder deleted. [4229](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4229)
- **CHANGED** Automatic State Store Encryption to stable feature [4260](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4260)
- **ADDED** `prometheus.io/probe` annotation [4272](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4272)
- **ADDED** Jetstream state store [4276](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4276)
- **FIXED** When the deployment selector is updated, dapr will get a "connection refused" error [4287](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4287)

> - **ADDED** Support for CockroachDB StateStore [4335](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4335)

Reviewer 4: should be part of components contrib section ...

Author: It already is in contrib section -- this is just the PR for registering it in dapr/dapr. Maybe can be removed?

Reviewer 5: removed that and jetsream.

- **FIXED** Parity between HTTP and gRPC APIs when saving JSON state [4349](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4349)
- **FIXED** Concurrent map write error in placement [4353](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4353)
- **FIXED** Reduce placement blocking client [4361](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4361)
- **ADDED** Mirror of 3rd party container images to Dapr's GHCR [4365](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4365)
- **ADDED** Explicit support for other AES key sizes [4373](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4373)
- **FIXED** In Docker containers, use the CA cert bundle that's part of the base distroless images [4380](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4380)
- **ADDED** Resiliency: Debug logging when a circuit breaker changes state [4381](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4381)
- **ADDED** Rejson image to Dapr's GHCR [4411](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/4411)
- **FIXED** Issue when actor reminders are used on single actor instance but is assigned on two pods on Kubernetes [4419](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4419)

> - **ADDED** Support to UDS on Kubernetes [4309](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4309)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **ADDED** Support for Unix Domain Socket (UDS) on Kubernetes [4309](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/4309)
```

  dapr-placement         dapr-system  True     Running  1         1.7.0   15s  2022-03-29 13:07.39
```

After Dapr 1.7.0 has been installed, perform a rolling restart for your deployments to pick up the new version of the sidecar.
This can be done with:

```
kubectl rollout restart deploy/<deployment-name>
```

## Breaking Changes

### Components
- In this release the `value` field has been removed from the key name in the state management Query API as part of the ongoing feedback on this preview feature.
    - **FIXED** statestore preview Query API: Remove 'value' prefix from the key names in query JSON [1490](https://github.com/dapr/components-contrib/issues/1490)
- This release include the breaking change to the MongoDB store [as described in v1.6.1 release notes](https://github.com/dapr/dapr/releases/tag/v1.6.1) to address a data serialization problem.
  - **FIXED** MongoDB state store: Removes MongoDB bson artifacts from JSON value output [1582](https://github.com/dapr/components-contrib/issues/1582)

### Java SDK
- **REMOVED** Deprecated builder classes [601](https://github.com/dapr/java-sdk/issues/601)

## Deprecation Notices

> - Content-type will not longer default to `application/json` if not explictly provided as a content-type header value for HTTP invocations starting in Dapr 1.9. Users are recommended to turn on the 

Reviewer 4: this line sounds incomplete ...

Author: argh it got cut off somehow

Author: It looks weird because it's referring to the feature flag PR. maybe should link to docs instead. I didn't write that

Reviewer 5: This is the point that I was asking in the chat. Where is the docs link to the new feature flag?

Author: It's already updated
